okay maybe I just had to drop my video a
bit
right I'm getting no no drop frames at
the moment
so God that's super freaking
annoying oh yeah tell me to stream not
during the day that's a great
idea okay so let's just get back to it
because let's see I'm not dropping any
frames anymore so I don't know what
happened
man
okay yeah
I
whatever
okay yeah so this will be tricky
find
this from a new stream
so you
initialize everything in main you
initialize video stream video Codec so
this probably gets passed to Al like
output
context okay that's
fine let's continue generator
oh trailer
[Music]
LOL I hate these two line if
conditionals or whatever I don't like
them I prefer the
braces all right whatever dropping the
video frame let me let me actually check
test the playback
though all right let me try to scroll
see how the scrolling
oh that's much
better and it seems like the delay is
lower I don't know what happened with
that either okay
cool the video quality doesn't seem
significantly degraded so I think we'll
probably keep this as it
is all right I actually want to start
from scratch
uh vidcap doc for
okay so what do we need to
do what does this program do that's the
real
question format context and we open an
input from the webcam
with this context and this input format
and then this is called the URL so that
could have been
a stream from a file then we find this
the first video stream format we could
have done options but that's fine I
don't really
care okay we get the stream in now we
have a
codec okay we print the parameters of
this format context streams codec
parameters so Associated okay codec
parameters associated with this
stream okay so then we create a codec or
we in instantiate or initialize the
codec
context then we find a
decoder for
that we find a decoder for this
format okay then we open the decoder
then we create the
converter from one pixel type to another
pixel
type oh I didn't know that if you hover
you get the num the the format
number okay then me just print out what
the
um what pixel format the codec the
decoder is
using okay then we allocate a
frame and we initialize
the
thing then we make another
frame that will be used for
RGB we allocate a
packet then we read a frame from the
input format to that
packet which this doesn't make any sense
to me at
all this is actually stupid I think what
we wanted to say was probably packet
data okay so what I would expect
is before read
frame packet is
empty after reading all right so if we
try
to what happened
it did
compile but it failed to run
somewhere did get
buff I think I think we want to do this
there we go
so before is empty yes after no so
that's actually what we wanted to say so
then this is
really this is the line
that takes the picture in my mind
hopefully I won't have to like upload
the concatenation of all these streams
hopefully twitch just puts them
together
okay it's really confusing that zero is
used for
success it's more like the inversion of
like did fail
whatever
okay okay then after we read the
frame or after we read
the did read frame into packet really
okay so after we get the
picture we want to send it to this
decoder
and the parameters this decoder
are like what is raw
video for
so it's literally just one pixel after
another just in 24 byte trunks
or wait but that's not necessarily true
because wait when I print out
this pixel
[Music]
format this is the decoder pixel
format but I Want To
Know audio
codec data codec it's probably a video
Codec input format what is
that the input container format that's
probably not what I
want input format do it can I get a
pixel okay what is
the okay so this is after we open
everything so
um I just want to ask okay
so this script takes a picture and
writes to PNG how can I
find the pixel format of the
camera because my
understanding is that the
raw that
the uh
output for
okay wait
so
e
e e
hello oh yeah okay hello so I figured
out
what I watched this soding stream
earlier today and he was talking about
bindings and I got to say now that I've
written the code in C I got to say the
rust code is super freaking OB fiscated
it's
like I just want to know what's going on
under the hood and this thing is telling
me all this
[__]
okay isn't that what I already do for
I think it should be the
same oh is it not
set oh no it's
this okay so the camera
so when the C the input
format pixel format is
yuv422 that
means that the
camera
doesn't doesn't
have that is
like specific to the
type design of the the sensor
interesting
[Music]
Okay so
that's
cool want know
1 half hour two half
hour like a bar of
chocolate I don't want to get
demonetized but that video is [__]
gold one half hour to half
hour all right so
okay so now conceptually hey what's up
bro what's up
Adam Sadam you a sad
Adam
okay all right let's go back to the the
webcam part of
this open video
encoder you actually made me laugh
that's pretty
good pretty
good wait let me get my phone so I can
read your
chat
okay
okay do I really have four viewers right
now that that can't be
right what's going on um okay here I'll
tell you what's going on right now we
just spent the last couple hours writing
this script that takes a picture so I
run this script and it outputs to a PNG
this picture from another webcam that's
not connected to OBS cuz you can't use
the same camera
twice it's really out because the
software I guess that's inside this
webcam um it takes like a it it does
like a boot process where it tries to
calibrate so it always starts out really
bright and then it works down
so uh yesterday I wrote a script that
using the rust FFM Peg bindings takes 50
pictures and by the end the colors look
a lot better than the first frame so the
first frame is really washed out and
then the last frames get increasingly
better and so today because I wanted to
understand just minim minimize what's
actually going on I decided to
um to rewrite it all in C and we finally
done that now the next step is to
capture a video so we're going to take
this and instead of decoding to jpeg
we're going to be
decoding to h264 and so that is what I'm
learning about now
and that is basically what I'm reading
through okay let me just read through
this
function 1 half hour 2 half hour
okay open video
encoder output context codec it's a
pointer to a pointer to a codec I don't
know why that
I do not understand C pointers not well
enough okay
so then we have an output stream and
then the dimensions of
the video I
guess it just initializes a
context it's so interesting that this is
like how C is
written okay so then you find the
encoder for h264 that's all
good then you create a new stream let's
see specifically what does that do add a
new stream to a media file when
demoing it is called by the demuxer and
read
header and it takes a output format
context so we'll see how that gets
initialized
later out outstream ID you have to
actually manually set that of course you
do so this should be Zer wait this
should be one so then this will be zero
because when you add a new stream
presumably this will increment and be
streams oh yeah hold on
we go to here
here
um how do you do this
int [__] what does it return it returns
an AV
stream there we
go okay and then if you do
okay there you
go so somewhere in here it's
incrementing so that's
good am I getting chats hold
on oh
[__] well I'm not doing R right now for
some reason my [__] phone does not
get the chats
properly I it didn't say that there was
any chats
Let's test this
out okay well I get my own
chats
okay XD XD
XD okay
okay then
we a new
context with a codec
okay allocate a new AV codc context and
set its field to default values the
resulting Str should be
freed okay
okay then
we said a whole bunch of stuff about
this
outstream I don't know how to handle the
time base
thing okay the bit
rate it's a pretty low bit rate I
think this is 400,000 bits a second
okay yeah that's a pretty low video bit
rate
okay
okay I feel like there's no way that you
actually have to do it like this but who
cares the C is the
codec
context I think you should be able to do
it with that helper function but
whatever okay now we open C couldn't
open codec okay now we PR oh this is
what I meant okay
so fill the parameter struct based on
values from the code at
context don't we manually do all that
right
there seems a little
weird Okay and then
what okay that's fine that function
makes sense to me now we have an output
context we have an output
format we have a video stream
and we have a video
Codec okay that's cool let's see does
output MP4
exist okay we can just delete that
oh if null file name is used okay cool
then it tries to specifically use EG
1920 by
okay dude am I
getting
yeah create and initialize an Avio Conta
for accessing the resource indicated by
the
URL PB I don't know what PB
means no that's easy yeah you just give
it the format
context capture frames and code and
write to file okay
perfect I wonder if this code just runs
H let's just try this
let's see did it make the
file very
cool
okay for
ASDF Okay cool so I got it on my phone
that's
nice all righty all righty okay so this
I'm going to rename to be
I format context
uh what am I
doing okay so
then okay
okay so
um see once I have it working I don't
really mind adding all the extra crud
I wonder if this is going to
work but it didn't actually write any of
the function oh there we go
I mean this all looks
right hello oh
no no okay
one more
time I kind of like the other one more
but
hey
man once it's working I don't really
care this is what it should be we just
say what we
want we got to sit back and relax am I
right okay what would I need to take a
pick for
I'm just curious if it actually
works Honestly though this is way less
clean than the
uh honestly I don't even want to use
this I feel like this is a total [__]
reite the other one was way better
where am I from I'm
from
America okay I feel like it's time to
just figure this thing out so
so this
context this codec is determined by the
input formats
uh codec
parameters in
vidcap no I'm not from
Chicago from California yeah I went to
school in
Chicago okay let's
read so this is an encoder but do we
need a decoder we probably need a
decoder let me look at that transcoding
example in
okay now that I know
this code base a little better I feel
like I might be able to read this thing
where are you from
bro sad Adam where's sad Adam from
that's what we all want to
know oh cool nice you know what I've
noticed I have a lot of European well
the people that tune in regularly like
my buddy Ole he's from Poland let's so
let's see what what's going on in
Hungary I love Google Maps you're from
Budapest wait Budapest yeah or you from
one of these other non-name towns
burn I'm just kidding bro I never been
to Hungary I feel like that'd be so fun
in the
East ah cool let's see do they have 3D
view that is how you know a town is cool
is if it has 3D
view there we go nice it does have 3D
View
it's a
population oh wow pretty small
population that's
fun yeah got to zoom into the McDonald's
in uh how do how do we say this
near
Gaza I don't know how to say this man
let's see if I can find a pronunciation
NASA wait what do you speak in
Hungary oh it is Hungarian
okay huh
bro I'm American I don't know [__] about
other
countries
um nice
man what do you do are you a software
engineer by the way if I'm ever in
Hungary I'm going to be hitting you up
man might need a crash on your couch
let's see I bet you guys have some nice
train systems to get to cool places you
know I was in Greece in a while it's
surprisingly I don't know how long a
train ride that would be probably like
10 hours or
something but I had one of my co-workers
he lived in
Bucharest you can probably get there
pretty
easily probably get to Vienna really
easily oh you're learning wait so you do
speak Hungarian or you
don't here wa let me get the chat up
here for
uh the the
VOD
um well I knew a bunch of Hungarian
mathematicians like uh John Von
noyman uh hold on the Martians
math these were all a bunch of Hungarian
guys dude these guys are
crazy yeah yeah yeah the hungarians
oh
yeah let's see I want to look at
Budapest now I'm guessing that you've
been to Budapest
right wow Budapest looks beautiful
man oh cool
oh that's not what I
wanted I don't want to click on it I
don't know why I don't want to click on
it oh really I didn't know about the
Rubik's Cube bro I'm I love the Rubik's
Cube I'm pretty fast
really carbonated
water that's
cool oh prey dude I used to use this all
the time that's funny
wow that's pretty
neat let's try this one more
time oh you're learning to code is that
what you were saying or you're learning
Hungarian I didn't get that exactly
okay what do we have to do
here right okay all right so let me read
this we have an input format context and
an output format
context I think we can safely ignore all
the filtering
stuff then we have two codec
one for decoding and one for
encoding oh wait how old are
you secondary school is that high
school
yeah oh wow cool
you going to college I bet uh hungry
probably has some pretty cool public
colleges that's the cool thing about
Europe
man there's a lot of history and
America's just so freaking big
[Music]
wait what does that mean you're not
going to wait hold on let's see oh yeah
nice how long's the train ride there
let's
see train
from bro I'm not going to get the
spelling of that to budha pest time
can this thing [__] hurry
up oh 3 hours that is not bad at
all oh two
hours yeah that's not bad at
all man hungary's kind of small small
then Hungary is like the size of
California or probably even smaller Oh
by a lot actually yeah from here to here
this is like
it's kind of amazing how small these
countries are when you like California
is like let's see let's see if we can
figure this out uh area of California
divided by area of
Hungary yeah so it's four and a half
times bigger than Hungary
are hungarians considered uh what is
slav
is Hungarian
Slavic oh I closed that
tab let's
see yeah they probably are considered
Slavs I've always want to go to
Croatia I knew this girl in high school
that went and uh she said it was awesome
oh you're not
slaving is that because of the language
or
what or is it like one of those things
where you guys like we're different
though yeah them but not us
though all
right oh right yeah language that's what
I
figured pretty cool
I forget where where uh oay said he was
from probably Warsaw I think he's from
Warsaw but so then i' I'd take a trip
where I'd go to Europe i' chill in
Warsaw and then I'd come down to near
Gaza but I need to I need to make a trip
out of it but I want
to well if you're in college at the time
I'll crash you your couch in
college okay all right it's time to get
back to to reading this thing all right
so we have a de okay so there's some
struct that has a
uh two codec contexts and a decod and a
frame that it
stores we open an input file this um
on the stream
info o that's a tough loss 2third of
your
country you guys should invade reclaim
your reclaim your
land you can spearhead this man sad Adam
reclaims
Hungary for the
world I'll back you all the way
bro okay so what does this actually
store cuz this must do something
FF format
context looks like a kid was just typing
F on his
keyboard many hungarians are outside the
Border okay fine it find some stream
info I don't even know what that means
it returns okay if
read packets of a media file to get
stream
information oh really EG doesn't have a
header ask GPT it'll fix the code well
right now I'm just trying to learn the
API I'm sure it will fix the code though
okay
um allocate a memory block for an array
that's weird whatever oh okay so for
each of the streams in the input format
you alloc a stream context so if
there's so EG can actually store two
streams of video
um
or is it for like one
for huh okay so yes you can have
multiple video streams but it's not
common the difference between the USA
and Hungary
yeah yeah that is true College is very
expensive
here
okay so we allocate that stream context
find the decoder for that
stream then you allocate the codec
context then you take the parameters
from the stream and load them into the
codec
context inform the decoder about the
time base for the packet timestamps This
is highly recommended but not mandatory
okay yeah time seems like a weird
thing okay if it's
video or
audio I want to get rid of all the audio
stuff how many lines of code is this
probably 500 lines of code just to trans
code a
video 650
hold on I'm going to grab something to
eat and get some
food
e
for
for for
all
right what
happened I didn't hear any gunfire
damn it's cold
man what's the weather in N
Gaza oh my gosh my spelling is oh yo
it's actually nice as hell where you're
at
man it's pretty good weather that's
exactly what I want to see
man I was going to make a joke all the
Europeans think they're just guns all
around
here near Gaza that's where the
gunfire's at
guest frame rate that's weird
what is
deck and we do this for each of the
streams okay
I see
okay so that just basically
initializes
um
this but does it give
us what does indexing this do that's
what what I don't
understand I'm eating
kiwis I love some good
fruit okay and then it gives a frame
wait does it oh it allocates a an array
of stream context all
right that's fine
no I'm vegetarian though
Jesus there this is so much boiler
plate okay presumably we can just delete
all of the filter
code for
peaches are great I don't eat peaches
that much
actually oh dude you have a garden
that's hype that's
hype I want to I want a garden
[Applause]
okay
this is a good
example
um I can speak a little bit Spanish but
pretty much just
English and and
uh
Hindi uh
uh what is it what is to speak I am so
embarrassing bro hold
on oh and uh uh uh K the oh I don't I
don't know a little bit of Mandarin I at
one point I tried to learn a little
Mandarin but
uh BNA yeah
uh me Hindi B let's see can I speak
this Hindi
B okay I mean I I don't really but I I'm
definitely English like fluent obviously
Spanish like I can like sort of get by
Hindi and Chinese basically
nothing espan
ESP ikin
Adam
German that's
cool German I heard is kind of tricky
because of uh
because of like gendered nouns I never
like gendered
nouns [__] it is so cold bro the weather
is supposed to get better next week 65
right now
okay so encode right frame what the hell
does this thing
do okay what is it that I even want out
of this file I want to know what extra
stuff I need to do to be able
to for
send frame is that what I'm thinking
of
um
yeah let me go back to my
example read frame so what does send
frame do
Supply a raw
video or audio frame to the
encoder do I use
that oh right this this makes an encoder
for JPEG and then sends that to an
encoder so is that what that
means
yeah and the receive frame is from a
decoder I guess right so when I if I go
to
receive frame this takes the
decoder return decoded output data from
a
decoder okay
and then you receive the
packet pack stre
minutes res scale
time these examples are too
advanced for
okay
oh I uh I dropped out of University I
was working for a while now I'm now I'm
a
dgen now I'm a
dgen doing nothing
yeah it was Co and I didn't like it
oh
what happens if we try to read two
frames I'm actually curious about that
okay so you can just call that until it
becomes zero
all right the
stream it's it's like doing this is such
nonsense man there's just this
convention in order it's like you just
have to know that the packet stores the
stream index I don't [__]
care what is a packet let's
see this structure stores compressed
data it typically is exported by
dxers and then passed as input to
decoders received as output from
encoders and passed to mxers okay that
sort of makes sense for video it should
typically contain one compressed
frame
oops for audio it may contain several
compressed frames encoders are allowed
to Output empty packets with no
compressed data containing only side
data for example to update some stream
parameters at the end of encoding the
semantics of data ownership depends on
the buff field if it is set the packet
data is dynamically allocated as valid
indefinitely until a call to
unre reduces the reference count to
zero if the buff
field is not set
make a copy instead of increasing the
reference
count okay that's semantics that I don't
really care
about so wait I just want to try to run
this program so if we have trans
code okay and then we have a
okay okay so now I want to
do okay then the input is going to be
vid do MP4 and the output is going to be
output MP4
okay okay so that should have written a
valid okay that's
fantastic this probably
had this had no audio in it I gu yes
that's kind of
weird so my guess of what I actually
have to do to make this work is just to
change the input so where's the input
get
set open input file so this is going to
open input file
I think I might just be able to do this
to hack it in
[Music]
this seems sus but I
think H what am I doing
okay find stream
info stream
context it allocates a stream context
and then for each
okay so codc context comes
from
here and it comes from the stream codec
parameters so all we need to
do I think is put
oops what do I think about wars I think
Wars are
bad okay
so we sort of just need to do
this actually
that's not defined okay
yeah I mean I don't really know anything
I would I wouldn't want to venture out
to say a whole bunch of stuff about
Ukraine because I don't know I don't
know [__]
where's that coming
from it's clearly logging something
okay wait let's just try to run this and
debug wait is that what I wanted to
do yeah I think it
is yeah not
really I wouldn't say I'm following the
new almost okay wait where did it
exit oh wait how do I provide the input
arguments
okay let's see if that
[Music]
works okay there we go
seg fault
the
streams open the output
file so it's in opening the output
file you know what we should do this
can I rerun it let's rerun it run it
back run it
back damn that's crazy bro how do you
how do you even like let's see let's go
back to the map let's go back to the
map yeah okay you guys kind of have a
border but you're not that close to it
man isn't it like all the way down
here if anything moldova's got
it well that's actually crazy that this
is Russian
territory that's actually crazy that
Russia is up in this [__] they have so
much land dude Russia just has so much
land it doesn't even come close
it's
crazy yeah that's that's so that's a
good
point wait so wait this is a null
pointer is that what it's saying to
me do you have to set that
I don't I don't know about that
huh
okay so
why is
that actually you know what I should do
this wait do I have the if I make a
change here does
this okay it
does okay so I'm actually going to edit
the other guy
[Music]
okay but do we have the
wait hold on let me try to do
this gdbl L DB
Windows uh all right let's try
that for
launch. Json let's just copy it over
oh really that actually happened that's
kind of
crazy yeah it's it's annoying it's
supposed to be it's supposed to get real
nice though
can I print stuff out
[Music]
oh great it reformatted the whole
thing fantastic okay in that case I'm
going to do
this H but that
actually it's actually really annoying I
don't want to do
that I want to do
this okay then I want to do
this okay then I want to copy over
okay let me just like read this again so
what does open input file
do this probably sets all
that but then I should be
okay change this to I fromat
context let's rerun it
oh it's already in use
somehow oh yeah it is in use
it fails right there that must mean that
this is a null pointer
oh what I've never seen that
before why don't I listen to
music the birds and stuff is my
music damn
all right I think I'm going to go to the
gym I think
uh um I'm over I'm all I'm like too much
so basically all I did today was take a
single picture but you know we're going
to run that [__] up we're going to run
that [__] again just to be like wow look
at
we wait hold
on uh did I really break it it doesn't
work
anymore bad Source image point
ERS oh is it because we did this
stupid read frame twice
thing what's the difference what
happened
that is so [__]
up I wonder why you know what it's
probably because this
thing I'm going to close that oh you
know what could be this
too
[__] bro it was working that's so
annoying what
changed he
I literally didn't change anything but
it's not wait hold on I probably just
have to recompile
it okay that's what I
thought wait this is not it this is
it this picture is actually pretty
beautiful even though it's so washed
out I like
this
pretty I like that it's so washed
out let's see if I can set the um
wait how do actually there was a way
to
um wait this is not what I want I
want okay so
before this
how how can I change this to have the
option to use the highest
resolution thanks bro bless me
I'm just going to do this
it
failed okay let's try to do this list
options thing
what we have 1920 by
1080 do wait do I need to
do I did that
oh
wait I think it was just that
okay what about
that oh it'll probably still fail
because there some stupid thing you need
to set oh I don't know
why at no issues
but kept seeing
okay so let me see that picture
again I could see this in a
museum it's
pretty now I really want the 1080p
wait let's do this
this 20
1080 oh
sick
nice oh we need to do this too
probably need to do this probably need
to do that what else do I need to do
probably need to do
that so much
cleanup clean up
okay so we'll just do this
increase cap
resolution all right that'll be where we
stop peace bro sad Adam you're the
[__] man see you in hungry see you in
Budapest actually